and we continue with health issues to
often many people confuse
warts with moles of all kinds and for
clarify this distinction and deepen
on the subject of warts we
Accompanies Dr. Edgardo Rodríguez
vallecillo dermatologist good afternoon
You enter for joining us
good stable without sea and good afternoon to
all the viewers as we can
differentiate between once there is not a
good place sometimes the person can
have a lot of difficulty in differentiating
one from another because the appearance can
be similar in puerto rico we have the
custom of calling wart all that
which is lifted on the skin and
forming an appearance we would say of
rough but the classic wart if I
allow the first image is pretty
characteristics because it's always
usually skin-colored and has a
really rugose appearance and the
can see on screen are like this in great
been the time is not in a case then
obviously quite dramatic for
illustrative purpose are very common in
children for example and how can you
see has that irregular appearance in the
surface something that polka dots so
general although they may have a
surface sometimes a little irregular
They are softer and usually polka dots
They also have brown color
moles that can be confused with
warts
they could not have color and depending on
their appearance like this we see so
this is a mole but a lunar time
rugged and in puerto rico we have the
habit to say these things warts but
for example this mole that we see in
screen because this would not be contagious
there is a person who only has that
mole 15 or 20 years ago the best when
we should worry about a mole or a
wart in this case when we do
worry and think that it could be to
touch 0-2 usually when they are injuries
new ones that were not there previously
one was born with them especially if
they are growing in size as that
logically it should be a warning signal
equally if a lesion is waxed and
is raw because logically it is
a sign that there is not something that does not go
well especially if it has not healed in 8
or 10 days as it would sound
injury that one does on the skin
it will not take cancer education not from
made the warts that are caused by
virus if we have the correct diagnosis
because there is usually no place
cancerous now some cancers of the
skin can grow in a form of
rough especially the carcinoma
spinocellular one of the three types
major skin cancer and that's
particularly if they can look like a
rough manner and can be mistaken
logically, sometimes they can even
specialist also
a biopsy to be able to distinguish a
thing of the other the warts are
contagious you have to have some kind of
care and how to determine if it is a
contagious wart or not the warts
contagious or viral are caused by
the human papilloma virus and those rumps
and they are logically contagious now
it depends a lot on the person there are people
whose immune system is therefore more
susceptible to being infected with these
warts and those people
logically they will give you especially
children are very susceptible these
things and that's why the pediatric population
the development of
rubén many times when one arrives at the
Adulthood has developed immunity
natural and many people like in the
my case even that had wheel
small of big no longer give me a close
less than what can prevent that
contagion especially in the case of
children of wrinkle of bones wrinkles is
really really nothing that
we can do I can stop this at all
one has to be aware and if
the wart occurs in trying to catch them
early before he grows up a lot
treatment treatment there are many
things can be done from putting in
this one if you simply cauterize the
sometimes you can apply certain
caustic liquids that can be thrown
to go destroying the wart is pulsed
liquid nitrogen that is still very cold
that is triggered by a bottle with
a spray
literally freezing the skin sometimes
depending on the site that can be used
the laser beam of certain types of lasers
as the so2 that can be useful for
that and the children who have the hobby of
these houses the warts and me that
it's definitely a bad habit because
precisely when scraping they can create
small corrections the wart maybe
theoretically, what could happen
green to the body these viral warts
that you are presented with a child in an adult
can refuse the rest of which yes yes
definitely sometimes we see
warts that depending on the new
the person's immune system will tend
to water and it can happen then in
large areas of skin moved a lot
also in women who shave
legs sometimes with trauma or
micro trauma that causes a knife
then the wart tends to be watered
other areas
obviously